Feature/data merge (#2)
energinet-singularity/gis-provider: README.md

# GIS-provider

> A container that parses three files and translated a name column from one file to the other. The last file is used to enforce a fixed translation instead of the one found by the script.

Reviewer: suggestion:- This codeset work as container to publish data from 3 files and column information to inter link data. 
The last file is used to enforce a fixed translation instead of the one found by the script. ( which one is last file)

Author: Included

## Description

This repository contains a python-script that will read three files and translate the name from one file to the name in the other file. In the script there is used a regex expression that will be specific to the project it is created for. Therefore if this code is going to be the base for another type of translation between files you will have to chaned the regex to fit your purpose. The script is intended to be run as part of a container/kubernetes, so a Dockerfile is provided as well, as is a set of helm charts.

### Exposed environment variables:

| Name | Description | Default |
|--|--|--|
|API_DB_NAME|Parameter to control the name of the dataframe when calling the API|GIS_DATA|
|API_PORT|The port that the API is exposed to|5110|
#### Data from a excel file that needs a column translated.

> |GIS_FILENAME|Filename of the excel file that needs a column translated|GIS_Driftstr_luftledning_koordinater_decimalgrader_05042022.xls|

Reviewer: missing header

Author: fixed

|GIS_SHEET|Specific sheet to use in the excel file|GIS_Driftstr_luftledning_koordi|
|GIS_COLUMN_NAME|The column name to identify which column is going to be translated|Name|
#### Data variables for creating the translating dict.

> |ETS_COLUMN_DLR_ENABLED|The column that controls if a name is needed for the later application|DLR_ENABLED|

Reviewer: missing header

Author: fixed

|GIS_SHEET|Specific sheet to use in the excel file|GIS_Driftstr_luftledning_koordi|
|GIS_COLUMN_NAME|The column name to identify which column is going to be translated|Name|
#### Data variables for creating the translating dict.
| Name | Description | Default |
|--|--|--|
|ETS_COLUMN_DLR_ENABLED|The column that controls if a name is needed for the later application|DLR_ENABLED|
|ETS_COLUMN_MRID|The desired column ID|ACLINESEGMENT_MRID|
|ETS_FILENAME|Filename of the csv file|seg_line_mrid_PROD.csv|
|ETS_COLUMN_NAME|The column name that is going to link the two files together|LINE_EMSNAME|
#### Mapping variables to create a another layer of translating.
| Name | Description | Default |
|--|--|--|
|MAP_COLUMN_GIS_NAME|Column that override the name in the excel file|GIS Name|
|MAP_COLUMN_ETS_NAME|Column that state the new name|ETS Name|
|MAP_FILENAME|Name of the mapping file|Limits_other.xlsx|
|MAP_SHEET|Specific sheet to use in the excel file|DD20Mapping|
#### Use mock data
| Name | Description | Default |
|--|--|--|
|MOCK_DATA|Parameter to control the use of Mock Data|False|

### Input

The input to the container is two main files these are: 

> One excel file containing the name that needs to be translated to match the name in the other csv file.

Reviewer: Needs Newline or enter to make separate lines at present it appear as one paragraph, withput line break.

Author: fixed

> One csv file that holds the translated name plus any other column that you want to translate the name to.

Reviewer: One csv file that holds the translated name  ( from which column , which file) plus any other column that you want to translate the name to.

Author: rewrote the section. :)

> In addition there is another file that can be transfared to the volume. The purpose of the files is to have the option to bypass the result of the translation function, if the name did not translate correctly. Then this file can be used to force a specific translation.

Reviewer: little confusion on name,
which name :- can you write or line_name, or text from column

Author: rewrote the section

 The script is intended to be run as part of a container/kubernetes, so a Dockerfile is provided as well, as is a set of helm charts.

### Exposed environment variables:

| Name | Description | Default |
|--|--|--|
|API_DB_NAME|Parameter to control the name of the dataframe when calling the API|GIS_DATA|
|API_PORT|The port that the API is exposed to|5110|
### Data from a excel file that needs a column translated
| Name | Description | Default |
|--|--|--|
|GIS_FILENAME|Filename of the excel file that needs a column translated|GIS_Driftstr_luftledning_koordinater_decimalgrader_05042022.xls|
|GIS_SHEET|Specific sheet to use in the excel file|GIS_Driftstr_luftledning_koordi|
|GIS_COLUMN_NAME|The column name to identify which column is going to be translated|Name|
### Data variables for creating the translating dictonary
| Name | Description | Default |
|--|--|--|
|ETS_COLUMN_DLR_ENABLED|The column that controls if a name is needed for the later application|DLR_ENABLED|
|ETS_COLUMN_MRID|The desired column ID|ACLINESEGMENT_MRID|
|ETS_FILENAME|Filename of the csv file|seg_line_mrid_PROD.csv|
|ETS_COLUMN_NAME|The column name that is going to link the two files together|LINE_EMSNAME|

> ### Mapping variables to create a another layer of translating

Author: I think we need to talk about this since I am unsure if I made myself clear was this file is used for.

| Name | Description | Default |
|--|--|--|

> |MAP_COLUMN_GIS_NAME|Column wit existing name in the excel file|GIS Name|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|MAP_COLUMN_GIS_NAME|Name of the column containing GIS name|GIS Name|
```

> |MAP_COLUMN_ETS_NAME|Column that state the new name|ETS Name|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|MAP_COLUMN_ETS_NAME|Name of the column containing ETS name|ETS Name|
```

|MAP_FILENAME|Name of the mapping file|Limits_other.xlsx|
|MAP_SHEET|Specific sheet to use in the excel file|DD20Mapping|
### Use mock data
| Name | Description | Default |
|--|--|--|

> |MOCK_DATA|Parameter to control the use of Mock Data|False|

Reviewer 2: Why is this here as a separate thing? Please join it with the rest - and add DEBUG as well (check earlier suggestion)

### Input

> The input to the container is three files where one is optional these are:

Reviewer: sugession , replace "is three files" with "are three files " :)

> The input to the container are three files where one is optional these are:
> - The first GIS excel file contains the column with names that needs to be translated to match the names in the ETS csv file.
> - The ETS csv file that have the desired column names you to translate to in order to link the two files together. In addition there is the MRID column that is added to the GIS dataframe generated from the GIS excel file.
> - In addition there is another file that can be transfered to the volume. The purpose of this file is to have the option to force a specific translation regardsless of what the script may produce. This does not need to be included in order for the script to work but is an additional option.
> 
> For more information on how the files are structured please look into the valid-testdata folder that is supplied in the repository.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The script takes three files as input:
- The GIS excel file
- The ETS csv file containing ETS name, MRID and enabled (Yes/No) state for each line
- A mapping/translation file for forced translation of specific names (this file is optional)

For more information on how the files are structured please look into the tests/valid-testdata folder that is supplied in the repository.

```

### Output

> The output will be a API that you will be able to SQL to and get information in the enriched GIS dataframe.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The output will be an API that can be queried with SQL to get information from the enriched GIS dataframe.
```

## Getting Started

The quickest way to have something running is through docker (see the section [Running container](#running-container)).

Feel free to either import the python-file as a lib or run it directly - or use HELM to spin it up as a pod in kubernetes. These methods are not documented and you will need the know-how yourself.

### Dependencies

> * Custime python module, available here: https://github.com/energinet-singularity/singupy

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Custom 'singupy' python module, available here: https://github.com/energinet-singularity/singupy
```

> * To run the script without mock data enabled. The user needs to be able to push files into the created volume on their system.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The files mentioned under "Input". It is possible to mock a set of input files with the MOCK_DATA environment variable.
```

> ### Python (if not run as part of the container)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Python (if not run as part of the container)
```
This is supposed to be a sub-heading below dependencies

The python script can probably run on any python 3.9+ version, but your best option will be to check the Dockerfile and use the same version as the container. Further requirements (python packages) can be found in the app/requirements.txt file.

> ### HELM (only relevant if using HELM for deployment)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### HELM (only relevant if using HELM for deployment)
```
This is supposed to be a sub-heading below dependencies

Built and tested on version 3.7.0.

> ### Docker

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Docker
```
This is supposed to be a sub-heading below dependencies

Why did you move this? I think it is better if we follow the template in stead of moving items around.

Built and tested on version 20.10.7.

> ## Running container

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Running container
```
This is supposed to be a sub-heading below getting started

Below you will see two options to spin up the container locally, one with using your own data and one with using built in mock data.

> ### Using own data source

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Using own data source
```

1. Clone the repository to a suitable place
````bash
git clone https://github.com/energinet-singularity/gis-provider.git
````

2. Build the container and create a volume
````bash
docker build gis-provider/ -t gis-provider
docker volume create gis-provider-pvc
````

3. Start the container in docker (change the environment variables to fit your setup, see section [Exposed environment variables](#exposed-environment-variables))
````bash
docker run -v gis-provider-pvc:/data/ -it --rm gis-provider:latest
````
The container will now be running interactively and you will be able to see the log output. To start sending files through, you will have to supply files to the created volume. This can be done with 'cp' if you have sudo rights to the system you are spinning up the container.

> ### Using mock data

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Using mock data
```

1. Clone the repository to a suitable place
````bash
git clone https://github.com/energinet-singularity/gis-provider.git
````

2. Build the container
````bash
docker build gis-provider/ -t gis-provider
````

3. Start the container in docker
````bash
docker run -e MOCK_DATA=True -it --rm gis-provider:latest
````

> The container will now be running interactively and you will be able to see the log output while the container runs through the mock data build into the Dockerfile. While using mock data there is no need to changed any of the many other enviroment variables since the default settings fits the mock data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The container will now be running interactively and you will be able to see the log output while the container runs.
```
I would suggest shortening it down to this.

> ### SQL commands

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### SQL commands
```

When the container is running in your local environment you can use the following bash command to query data from it. The example below assumes you are using Mock data with default settings, please change "localhost" with the IP that your API is running on.

> SQL statement
> ````bash
>  curl -d '{"sql-query": "SELECT * FROM GIS_DATA;"}' -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -X POST http://localhost:5110/

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
````bash
 curl -d '{"sql-query": "SELECT * FROM GIS_DATA;"}' -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -X POST http://localhost:5000/
```

Reviewer 2: removed "sql statement" text and fixed port

````

> For more information regarding the API setup and structure i refer to the custom module at https://github.com/energinet-singularity/singupy

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information regarding the API setup and structure, refer to the custom module at https://github.com/energinet-singularity/singupy
```

## Help

See the open issues for a full list of proposed features (and known issues). 
If you are facing unidentified issues with the application, please submit an issue or ask the authors.

## Version History

> * 0.0.2:

Reviewer 2: Assume this should be 1.0.0 when we move to production, as per you own comment?
